hiya!
I should have power too great and terrible. And over me the
Ring would gain a power still greater and more deadly. His
eyes flashed and his face was lit as by a fire within. Do not
tempt me! For I do not wish to become like the Dark Lord
himself. Yet the way of the Ring to my heart is by pity, pity
for weakness and the desire of strength to do good. Do not
tempt me! I dare not take it, not even to keep it safe, unused.
The wish to wield it would be too great for my strength. I
shall have such need of it. Great perils lie before me.
He went to the window and drew aside the curtains and
the shutters. Sunlight streamed back again into the room.
Sam passed along the path outside whistling. And now, said
the wizard, turning back to Frodo, the decision lies with you.
But I will always help you. He laid his hand on Frodos
shoulder. I will help you bear this burden, as long as it is
yours to bear. But we must do something, soon. The Enemy
is moving.
There was a long silence. Gandalf sat down again and
puffed at his pipe, as if lost in thought. His eyes seemed
closed, but under the lids he was watching Frodo intently.
Frodo gazed fixedly at the red embers on the hearth, until
they filled all his vision, and he seemed to be looking down
into profound wells of fire. He was thinking of the fabled
Cracks of Doom and the terror of the Fiery Mountain.
Well! said Gandalf at last. What are you thinking about?
Have you decided what to do?
No! answered Frodo, coming back to himself out of darkness, and finding to his surprise that it was not dark, and that
out of the window he could see the sunlit garden. Or perhaps,
yes. As far as I understand what you have said, I suppose I
must keep the Ring and guard it, at least for the present,
whatever it may do to me.
Whatever it may do, it will be slow, slow to evil, if you
keep it with that purpose, said Gandalf.
I hope so, said Frodo. But I hope that you may find some
other better keeper soon. But in the meanwhile it seems that
82 the fellowship of the ring
I am a danger, a danger to all that live near me. I cannot keep
the Ring and stay here. I ought to leave Bag End, leave the
Shire, leave everything and go away. He sighed
